# Project Proposal 
Project Title: Skyrim Combat Skills Planner

Developers: Megan Petruso and Hayden Grindstaff



## Project Overview
#### Description 
In The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, players are able to create, enhance, and utilize weapons and armor for combat. The player’s character increases their skills, such as One-Handed, Light Armor, Blocking, etc., in order to level up. In doing so, a perk is available to the player, which adds a special effect in said skill tree in which the perk belongs. Although each perk is given a small description, there is no way to experience the effect of the perk until you take the time to level up and use a skill point to unlock said perk. Because of this, some players may feel like they wasted a skill point because the perk did not enhance their character in the way they expected. Our goal is to create a website for players to create and plan out their Skyrim character, with emphasis on how prospective perks affect numerical values for weapon damage and armor defense. The user will enter their character’s data, such as character level, skill level and perks achieved for relevant skill trees, and any active effects or any apparel that grants enhancements. The website will allow the user to plan a character build, see how much damage a weapon can do with specific perks or at a specific skill level, the effect certain potions will have upon crafting weapons or armor, which armor will provide the best protection, and understand what perks are ideal for the user’s character to have.

#### Features
The user will be able to create an account on the website. Upon creating the account, the user will create a username and password, input their Skyrim character’s name, character level, active effects, such as racial bonuses, apparel enchantments, standing stones, etc.. Most importantly, the user will also input skill levels and accomplished perks for the following skills: Smithing, Light Armor, Heavy Armor, One-Handed, Two-Handed, Archery, and Blocking. The user will then be able to experiment crafting weapons and armor while tweaking their character’s perks, skill levels, and active effects, which instantly modifies the weapon damage or armor rating. The changes to the character’s skill levels and perks are not saved in this “Look Ahead” menu; so the user can modify their character however they want in order to see all the possibilities of their prospective build. Users are able to add and remove crafted or found items, including unique items, from a drop down list into their character’s saved inventory. The user is also able to create multiple characters, each with their own stats and items. On the back end, we will first create a database of all upgradable, craftable, and unique weapons and armor in Skyrim. We will create this database from the list of weapons and armor on the following websites: [weapons](http://elderscrolls.wikia.com/wiki/Weapons_(Skyrim)), [armor](http://elderscrolls.wikia.com/wiki/Armor_(Skyrim)). Our first prototype will be a minimal website that will allow a user to be able to sign up or login and create their character’s profile. The user will enter the character’s information that was previously described by clicking specific checking boxes for each perk the character possesses, selecting active effects from a drop down list, typing the character level into an input box, and typing each skill level into an input box. The user will have to reference his or her game in order to gain this information because the website will not have the capabilities to read a saved game file to gain all of the Skyrim character’s data automatically. Likewise, if, in game, the character advances a level and gains another perk, the user will have to log into the website and manually change the character’s data values. In order to calculate the projected weapon damage and armor defense values, we will use the formulas found on the following websites: [weapons](https://skyrim.gamepedia.com/Damage), [armor](https://skyrim.gamepedia.com/Armor). Our first steps will be to create the weapon and armor databases, active effects database, create a list of perks for Smithing, Light Armor, Heavy Armor, One-Handed, Two-Handed, Archery, and Blocking, create a website front, create a login page, create a sign up page where the user can also enter the Skyrim character’s data, and create a profile page where the user can see the current character’s stats and inventory.

#### Why is this Valuable?
We find this project valuable because both of us have come across the dilemma of wasting a perk because we did not know how it would directly affect the weapons we have in our inventory. We want to extend our knowledge of working with databases and manipulating the data via a website. This website will also allow a user to create a hypothetical Skyrim character and experiment with perks, levels, and different items within the game.

#### Potential Users
Users of the website will be people and gamers who play Skyrim and want to plan out their character’s combat skills. Those who are new to gaming or RPGs could also benefit from the website because it will help the user decide which perks are better for the user to have. We hope to answer players’ questions about which perks are actually helpful for the user’s player and which perks are merely stepping stones to get a desired character.

## Similar Work
There are three similar products to our proposed website. However, all of the products, the [Skyrim Calculator](https://skyrimcalculator.com/plan), a product by a [Reddit user](https://www.reddit.com/r/skyrim/comments/50d750/skyrim_character_planning_spreadsheet/), and the product by [IGN](http://www.ign.com/builds/the-elder-scrolls-5-skyrim/create) do not allow the user to keep a character inventory or observe the numerical change in weapon damage and armor defense while manipulating skill levels and perks. Similarly, our product will focus solely on weapons and armor, while the latter products included all possible skill trees. More specifically, our website will not model a social media site, like the Skyrim Calculator. Instead, our website will not allow other users to communicate with each other. We want to design a website specifically for each user and not for the communication between them. Likewise, the product by IGN is more for visualizing and learning about perks; while our website will be focused on learning about perks *and* demonstrating how those perks can affect weapon damage and armor defense by calculating the values before the user has made a final decision on a perk. The product by the Reddit user was not intuitive by any means. One would have to switch between spreadsheets to determine what was happening and changing for the character. Our website would be an improvement from this product because it will be user friendly, intuitive, and allows users to freely experiment with skill levels and perks to see the direct numerical change in weapon damage and armor defense without having to change screens or menus.

## Previous Experience
We have some experience coding back-end database management and front-end web development. In CS 3430, we were in a group together creating a website that manipulates data within a database we created on PHPmyAdmin. Hayden has much more experience in web development because of his client-side and server-side programming classes. He coded the front-end web page for the final CS 3430 database project. Megan has more experience coding the back-end, including PHP and SQL from coding the back-end of the final CS 3430 database project. This allows Hayden to comfortably take the front-end, web design and functionality of the project and Megan to take the back-end, database manipulation part of the project.. We are both avid Skyrim players. Our knowledge of how the game functions, what attributes are important, and being able to physical test and check our website data will be extremely helpful in our product creation. 

## Technology
* Student Server and Github: We are planning to use the Student Server to actually host the website, because Hayden has had experience in hosting assignments there in web development classes
* MySQL and PHPmyAdmin: We plan to host the databases through PHPmyAdmin and manipulate and maintain users’ data through MySQL. We used these in our Database class that we took together, but we are not completely confident in all of the possible capabilities these utilities hold. 
* HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript: Using these languages for the front-end framework of the website because we are comfortable with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, but want to expand our web design knowledge with Bootstrap.
SQL and PHP: Using these languages for back-end framework of the website and database management because although we have coded some in both SQL and PHP, we have enough familiarity with these languages to use them, but want to expand our knowledge and create more complex scripts.
* Notepad++ and Sublime Text: These programs will be a place to write our code because we find that using vim or emacs is not as efficient for our coding style. Similarly, we will be using WinSCP to transfer our Notepad++ and Sublime Text code files to the Student Server.
* We plan on fully testing each function of the website as we develop by using a white hat approach and trying to break the site in order to find bugs and flaws because we do not have the knowledge to inject scripts into our website that will test its features.
* Github: Use Github’s issues and backlog features for bug tracking and project management because we are most comfortable and familiar with Github’s tools, as opposed to Jira, for example.
* We are creating our own database of weapons and armor by pulling information from the following websites: [weapons](http://elderscrolls.wikia.com/wiki/Weapons_(Skyrim)) and [armor](http://elderscrolls.wikia.com/wiki/Armor_(Skyrim)). As of right now, we could not find a premade database with weapons and armor from Skyrim.

## Risk Areas
Our main risk areas are with lack of experience with many of the tools we are plan to use. We have a decent foundation in creating websites, databases, and having them communicate with each other; however, when it comes to testing, debugging, automating, and managing all of our code, it may start out as a nightmare. We will have to do research in different types of products we can use and find open-source products that use a language we know, such as Java, C, C++, Javascript, and PHP. We will have to start with several micro-projects just to get to know new languages and tools.
